Combine OSS, Enterprise and Commerce installation guides (#1151)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/getting_started/install_ez_platform.md

    To install eZ Platform for development on macOS or Windows,
    see [Install on macOS or Windows](../community_resources/installing-on-mac-os-and-windows.md).

## Prepare the work environment

To install eZ Platform you need a stack with your operating system, MySQL and PHP.

You can install it by following your favorite tutorial, for example: [Install LAMP stack on Ubuntu](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-linux-apache-mysql-php-lamp-stack-ubuntu-18-04).

Additional requirements:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) and [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/#debian-stable) for asset management.
- `git` for version control.
- to use search in the shop front end, you need to have [Solr installed](#install-solr).

[For production](#prepare-installation-for-production) you also need Apache or nginx as the HTTP server (Apache is used as an example below).

> Before getting started, make sure you review the [requirements](requirements.md) page to see the systems we support and use for testing.

Author: The reqs in this page are actually a subset of those on the Requirements page, so this makes more sense:
```suggestion
Before getting started, make sure you review other [requirements](requirements.md) to see the systems we support and use for testing.
```

    php -r "readfile('https://getcomposer.org/installer');" | php
    ```

    If you do so, you must replace `composer` with `php -d memory_limit=-1 composer.phar` in all commands below.

## Get eZ Platform

!!! enterprise "Enterprise and Commerce"

    ### Set up authentication tokens

    Enterprise and Commerce subscribers have access to commercial packages at [updates.ez.no/bul/](https://updates.ez.no/bul/).
    The site is password-protected. You will need to set up authentication tokens to get access to it.

    Log in to your service portal on [support.ez.no](https://support.ez.no), go to your **Service Portal**, and look for the following on the **Maintenance and Support agreement details** screen:

    ![Authentication token](img/Using_Composer_Auth_token.png)

    1. Select **Create token** (this requires the **Portal administrator** access level).
    2. Fill in a label describing the use of the token. This will allow you to revoke access later.
    3. Save the password, **you will not get access to it again**!

    !!! tip "Save authentication token in `auth.json` to avoid repeatedly typing it"

>         Composer will ask to do this for you on updates.

Author: ```suggestion
        Composer will ask you to provide a token every time you perform an update.
```

>         Composer will ask to do this for you on updates.

Author: ```suggestion
        Composer will ask whether you want to save the token every time you perform an update.
```

>         If you decline, you can create an `auth.json` file manually in one of the following ways:

Author: ```suggestion
        If you prefer, you can decline and create an `auth.json` file manually in one of the following ways:
```

>         - A: Store your credentials in the project directory (for security reasons do not check it in to git):

Author: On this page VCS is only used as part of commands. In other places, I'd rather change VCS to git, as we're using a specific one and one less acronym is always better.

        If you are using Platform.sh, you can set the token as an environment variable.

        When you do, make sure the **Visible during runtime** box in Platform.sh configuration is unchecked.
        This will ensure that the token is not exposed.

        ![Setting token to be invisible during runtime](img/psh_addvariable.png)

    After this, when running Composer to get updates, you will be asked for a username and password. Use:

    - as username - your Installation key found on the **Maintenance and Support agreement details** page in the service portal
    - as password - the token password you retrieved in step 3.

    !!! note "Authentication token validation delay"

        You can encounter some delay between creating the token and being able to use it in Composer. It might take up to 15 minutes.

    !!! note "Support agreement expiry"

        If your Support agreement expires, your authentication token(s) will no longer work.
        They will become active again if the agreement is renewed, but this process may take up to 24 hours.
        _(If the agreement is renewed before the expiry date, there will be no disruption of service.)_

## Create project

> There are two ways to get eZ Platform. The result is the same, so you can use the way you prefer:

Author: ```suggestion
There are two ways to get an instance of eZ Platform. 
The result is the same, so you can use the way you prefer:
```

- [Download or clone](#a-download-or-clone)
- [Create a project with Composer](#b-create-project-with-composer)

### A. Download or clone

=== "eZ Platform"

    You can either:
    - download an archive from [ezplatform.com](https://ezplatform.com/#download-option)
    and extract the archive into the location where you want your project root directory to be, or
    - clone the [`ezplatform` GitHub repository](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform).

    ``` bash

>     git clone https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform .

Author: Cloning to the current repository avoids having to add `cd <your directory>`, which people are likely to forget.

    composer create-project --keep-vcs ezsystems/ezplatform . ^2.3.1
    ```

!!! tip "Usage of authentication token with `composer create-project`"

>     If you have several projects set up on your machine,

Author: ```suggestion
    If you configure several projects on one machine, make sure that
```

    If you want an installation with PostgreSQL instead of MySQL, refer to [Using PostgreSQL](../guide/databases.md#using-postgresql).

!!! enterprise "Commerce"

    ## Install and configure Solr for Commerce

    Search in the shop front end requires Solr as search engine. To install it, run the included script:

    ``` bash
    bash ./install-solr.sh
    ```

    Configure the following parameters in the `.env` file:

    - `SISO_SEARCH_SOLR_HOST`
    - `SISO_SEARCH_SOLR_PORT`
    - `SISO_SEARCH_SOLR_CORE`

    Also in the `.env` file, set Solr as the search engine:

    ```
    SEARCH_ENGINE=solr
    ```

## Install eZ Platform

Install eZ Platform and create a database with:

``` bash
composer ezplatform-install
```

Before executing the command make sure that the database user has sufficient permissions.

If Composer asks for your token, you must log in to your GitHub account and generate a new token

> (edit your profile, go to Developer settings > Personal access tokens and Generate new token with default settings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(edit your profile and go to **Developer settings** > **Personal access tokens** > **Generate new token with default settings**).
```

> (edit your profile, go to Developer settings > Personal access tokens and Generate new token with default settings).

Author: ```suggestion
(edit your profile and go to **Developer settings** > **Personal access tokens** > **Generate new token** with default settings).
```

chown -R www-data:www-data <your installation directory>
```

> Directories `var` and `public/var` need to be writable by CLI and the web server user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Directories `var` and `public/var` must be writable by CLI and the web server user.
```

Future files and directories created by these two users will need to inherit those permissions.

!!! caution

>     For security reasons, in production, the web server should not have write access to other directories than `var`. Skip the step above and follow the link below for production needs instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For security reasons, in production, the web server cannot have write access to other directories than `var`. 
    Skip the step above and follow the link below for production needs instead.
```

>     You must also make sure that the web server cannot interpret files in the `var` directory through PHP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You must also make sure that the web server cannot interpret the files in the `var` directory through PHP.
```

a2dissite 000-default.conf
```

Finally, restart the Apache server.
The command may vary depending on your Linux distribution.
For example, on Ubuntu use:

``` bash
service apache2 restart
```

Open your project in the browser and you should see the welcome page.

!!! tip "eZ Launchpad for quick deployment"

    To get your eZ Platform installation up and running quickly,
    use the Docker-based [eZ Launchpad](https://ezsystems.github.io/launchpad/), which takes care of the whole setup for you.
    eZ Launchpad is supported by the eZ Community.

## Post-installation steps

!!! enterprise

    ### Enable Date-based Publisher

>     To enable delayed publishing of Content using the Date-based Publisher, you need to set up cron to run the command `bin/console ezplatform:scheduled:run` periodically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To enable delayed publishing of Content using the Date-based Publisher, you must set up cron to run the `bin/console ezplatform:scheduled:run` command periodically.
```
